The Joe Rogan experience.
You know, I think to really be a good game warden,
you gotta cut your teeth on all the traditional stuff.
That's critical of just having to, having to check guys with guns all the time.
You know, most cops look at that and go, that's crazy. I mean,
everybody you check has a knife or a firearm. Yeah. Well,
fortunately 99% of 'em are gonna like Q and me that wanna see a game warden and
game warden wants to see us. But for that one felon,
that's on parole and he's in the woods hiding out and we run across that a lot.
And I, I ran across a ton of that down here in SoCal,
really at the start of my career.
And I've got some interesting stories about that, but so guys who are like,
they skip bail and then they go and hide. Yep.
And they've got like a no bail warrant wanted on some warrant somewhere.
And so they're off fishing. They have an illegal firearm.
Maybe they're a felon in possession of a firearm. They can't even have.
And now they're out in a remote area where no cop gonna find me here.
And then I'm the new game warden in Riverside county, you know,
all fricking motivated, really green. I don't know totally what I'm doing yet.
Right.
And I'm in that truck cruising in something I got into down on here that was
just crazy. But I will say this, it was a heck of a learning curve and, um,
I'm really blessed. It went out the way it did and it was, I was safe in it,
but, um, we would get gang bangers from, from LA here.
And they would go over into Riverside county and get into my kind of rural,
you know, foothills and on the edge of the national forest.
And they'd have AK 47 S and they'd have, you know,
automatic pistols and they would spotlight through these canyons gunning for
everything. They'd kill rabbits, they'd kill coyotes, they'd kill deer.
They'd get to the end of like a canyon that has like a, an outlet of a dam,
throw a Gill net out and spend all night.
They're just gillnet and fish and hunt freely and shooting,
killing everything with their spotlights, grab their gillnet,
grab hundreds of fish pack up and then head back, you know,
back to the LA basin, gang bangers. I'm not kidding.
And the craziest part of fishing, gang bangers. Yeah.
Commercial almost commercial fishing does it does. It sounds nuts. Right.
So strange. And what would they do with the fish? Oh,
they'd eat 'em maybe they'd sell 'em. You know, who knows?
Usually with quantities that big, they were getting sold.
But the thing that was crazy is I would be, you know, alone, I'd be in my truck.
I didn't have a canine yet, you know? And now I just, uh, I just retired with,
well, like you're a Marshall, I have Apollo yellow lab, English lab.
She's amazing. Never gonna bite a bad guy,
but she's gonna lick him to death and try to try to, you know, uh,
turn 'em all away. Um,
but I didn't even have a companion dog at the time and I would go and run into
these guys and go, okay, this is what I learned in the academy that you know,
that, that head on spotlighting stop that you never want to have,
or getting behind him, blacked out and tracking 'em down. Um,
and next thing I know I got AKs and I got all these freaking prohibit,
exotic weapons, and I'm going, this is crazy. I'm pulling these guys out alone.
I don't have a lot of back. It was just you. It was just me.
How many guys did you run into? So times would be two, one night.
I pulled like eight people out of a van. Oh. And I was alone. Oh.
And they were all armed and it was one of my heaviest, most intense cases.
And I had been on one year, like say, if you are,
if you're preparing for a fight, how many days a week do you do.
Strength and conditioning.
When I'm, I'm preparing for a fight? Uh, every day, every day,
every day. It's not, of course it's not the same training,
but every day I see Valenti and uh, we train together. Yeah.
Every day I train more conditioning and strange, more than kickboxing.
Really? Yeah. I, I don't have a trainer in.
Cubboxing what <laugh> that's right. Yeah. Really people,
people don't believe doesn't believe in when I say that, but I,
you train yourself.
I train myself.
That's insane. I have, of course my friend in, uh, in friends who hold,
hold meats for me, for sure. I can, I can hold meat for my, myself.
He all me for me. And we just talk together. We just plan, uh,
a game plan together for a fight. We just talk I'm my own coach. You know,
that is crazy.
I never a coach to be at your level. Yeah. To be your own coach.
You've never had a coach. No, of.
Course I have. I had a first got you. Teach you, teach me after that.
He couldn't teach me any more because, because of his job, you know, when I,
when I was young and then I just move from, uh,
to country and countries and countries to learn, to learn, to learn,
and then came back in France, Paris, and I just trained myself. That.
Is insane. Yeah. How many world champions just train themselves?
I think nobody <laugh>.
How do you do that? That's sounds CRA, but why didn't you get a, another coach?
I don't know, because I didn't find a coach who can,
I don't know who can just teach me. I really don't know. That's a good question.
I don't, I don't. Why did I, what, I didn't found a new coach.
I don't know, because, you know, have you.
Thought about making any trips to Holland or to Thailand.
You know, you know, BDO in France? Sure. Yeah. So I,
I was raised there. That's where I started, uh, kickboxing.
I started with full contact, you know, full contact. Sure.
Rick rooferss was my first. I had really? Yeah. Oh wow.
I was watching Rick Ru roof. His brother.
Duke is one of the big coaches in yeah. His.
Name is, um, he, his brother to duke. Duke Rufus. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He's a friend of mine. He's great. Oh, nice. Yeah.
He's uh, outta Milwaukee. He has a Rufus.
Sport. Yeah. Yeah. Buddy of mine.
Who's a biologist with the forest service guy named Carl Malcolm.
He might have heard on our, our show. Uh, he just sent me a,
a paper that was about kids at huge to wildlife.
And it was comparing rural people's attitude and knowledge of wildlife
kids with urban and, and suburban attitudes about wildlife.
And you, you can see the input of media when you look at this thing, because
people who live in a urban or suburban environment,
when they tell you the top of mind,
wildlife that they know about it's non-native stuff like lions.
Yeah. They're likely to know, like, what's, what's an animal, right.
And an animal will be like, oh, it'd be like a draft. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And, and, and people who have a more, um,
rural or remote viewpoint would be, are,
are much more likely to when they think of wildlife to think of things that they
interact with, you know, and not like the things that are on your mobile,
above your crib, <laugh> when little baby. Right. And it sort of points. And,
and also there, there's a slight tendency. I gotta look at this more carefully,
but there's a slight tendency to have, uh,
negative feelings or think things are dangerous or bad.
The more urban you are in terms of native wildlife to
more recognize it as like a negative or bad thing.
<affirmative> and what they're pointing to is, um, again,
I wanna look at this much more careful and pardon me to the authors of authors.
If I'm messing this up, I was just looking at it this morning. Um,
what they're pointing to is the, the,
the stirrings of there being a, a greater acceptance of decreased biodiversity.
Hmm. Meaning that you're kind of like, okay,
with the bad things having gone and we're focused on like, what are animals?
Well, animals would be like a draft and hippotommus, and the things that,
that Disney tells me about, and not like posums and raccoons,
which are kind of gross. Hmm. You know?
Mm. And I was like, you know, I don't like that.
And so I wound to up kind of calling around to all the different shops in
Dallas, where it's like, okay, I've got a Ferrari 3 28.
I wanna make it a little faster.
And I had done all this stuff on my MGB back in the day.
So I know the things that,
that you wind up doing with intake and exhaust and cam timings and, uh,
the options there, but they were all basically horrified. Like,
you just don't do this to a Ferrari.
And like the only suggestion that came out was, oh,
we can put an Italian to be exhaust on it. And that'll, you know,
it'll make it sound better.
And maybe it's good for a couple horsepower or something.
Those are things that people largely do for the aesthetics, uh, you know,
whether it's oral or visual with it. Uh, and that's not a big move.
And write about that time. John Romero at the office had, I picked up,
there was a copy of turbo magazine, uh, back in the day.
And there was an article about an old replica, um,
kind of race car done by a local company in Dallas called, uh,
Norwood Autosport or Norwood autocraft. And I thought, well, he's right here.
I'll call him up. And so I call him up,
I get Bob Norwood on the phone and I start going a pitch, I've got a 3 28.
I'd like it to be a little faster. What do you think we can?
And before I could even finish, he said, we'll put a turbo on it. Like, yeah,
now we're talking <laugh>. And that was the beginning of,
I kind of all the science project experiments.
Mm-hmm what does the 3 28 have standard horsepower? I think in the, the best,
probably the European trim, you know,
it probably around 300 horsepower and what'd you get it up to with a turbo
charger? So we went through a number of steps of this, and this is all, uh,
swapping out, uh, all the computer electronics, um, different turbos.
And eventually I melted the engine in it when it was at, uh,
like 500 or so. And I went through a long history of melting,
many pistons in the different devices, in different, uh, cars,
but that wound up being this decade long set of interesting experiments there.
That was my gateway drug into working on this. And we're like, okay,
we've made all this power in this system. Uh,
we know it's kind of at the limits of a lot of things in the chassis after we
melted the engine there, we tuned it back down a little bit.
That's the way so many engineering things wind up going,
you go it until it breaks,
then you dial it back a little bit and you stay there.
It must have been radically.
Fast for 3 28. It's very light, right? Yes. It's a curb.
Weight. Uh, well, it's not super light. I think it was like 3,200 pounds. And,
uh, yeah, it, it, you could really feel it rear back when you went into it.
And I, at high speed,
it is a little bit dartdy if you start getting up in one 50 plus miles an hour
of that. So we thought, well, what's the next level? Where do we go from here?
So I, he had done, uh, a twin turbo job on a testosa before,
which is a much wider car. I, you know, stock, they would go, oh, 180,
190 miles an hour, uh, with the normal Ferrari trim. And,
and it was a bigger five liter flat 12.
So there's a lot more possibility for doing things there. So I got,
I got a test, a rosaosa and we said, all right,
we're gonna do the twin turbo job with inter coolers with the new, uh, you know,
the new engine management systems.
And we went through this long string of upgrades through this,
which generally was like, okay, we melted the pistons. We, you know,
broke the input shaft all these times, but at its top form in peak, uh,
I still have the Dino sheet for,
it was like 1,009 horsepower at the rear wheels.
None of this crank horsepower talk. This was, uh, you know,
over a thousand horse power at the real reals. And it was amazing.
Uh, I thought, and I, I wanna say this very clearly. Um,
I thought he was wonderful at his job. You know,
if you had someone who was actually a business person, um, on that show,
it would be the worst show in the world because bill gates would make proper
decisions, right. And there'd be no surprises.
You want someone capricious and crazy with no filter. That's what you want.
Right. And that's what we got. So he makes arbitrary decisions that you try,
you know, the human brain tries desperately to make those make sense,
and that ends up being some kind of entertainment. And, um, so I actually,
uh, actually, uh, Donald Trump Jr said to me, you know,
of all the people we've had on the show,
you seem like the only person who's ever liked my father <laugh>.
He said, you actually seem to like him. And I said, you know,
I have a fascination and a respect and a, um,
affection for people who are able to get out of their filters.
And I said, some people do that with pure genius. Like Bob dylanman,
some people do it with bravery, like Lenny, Bruce,
some people do it with drugs, you know, Neil young, perhaps, uh,
Jimmy Hendrix, perhaps. And most people do it with a mixture of stuff.
But I said, um, thonius monk said,
the genius is the one who is most like himself. And I said with some sort of,
um, mental problems coupled with, um,
read and a lack of compassion,
your father has somehow found a way to throw off the filters.
And I will listen to tiny Tim talk on tape for hours
because I like that little bit of Aspergers and all that other stuff. Well, I'm,
I'm not, so I'm not qualified to right to, but I'm saying that'ss pot. He, yeah,
he's all sure. I can hear him talk forever. I can listen to Lenny Bruce,
you know,
Hal Wilner has those hundreds hours of him just ranting under his tape. I,
I think I don't like people on drugs that much, but boy, I do. And I listen to,
uh, uh, Lenny Bruce talk forever. And, uh,
Donald Trump had the dark side of that. You know,
it was almost was like when I was hitchhiking around the country and, you know,
homeless and, and you'd end up at a biker place and, you know,
some clubhouse and some guys just holding court and ranting,
I've always been interested in the people who were out on the margins, you know,
and what, what Donald junior,
um, <affirmative> took as affection. I, I guess, was a bit of affection,
but it's also that if you have thrown off some filters, I'll listen to you talk.
And, um, so that was that it was very, very strange. And then, um,
I really did spend a lot of time kind of sticking up for Donald Trump saying,
yeah, there's inter interesting stuff there and yeah, he's, he's crazy.
And he's veennal and, um, he's empty, uh, you know,
really weird stuff that you've never seen before.
You have never seen someone who has never laughed sincerely and never made a
joke. Never.
Laugh. Sincerely.
No, he, he will laugh in a bully way. Ha you look kind a fat Joe.
Really? Yeah.
He'll do that, but he won't laugh at himself.
Oh, oh no. And also, but never a, even a joke even, but.
He says funny things on Twitter.
Did you see the thing he did on Twitter the other day where you put a picture of
Trump tower in Greenland and he said, ipromised not to do this. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I laughed. Mmhmm <affirmative> that was funny.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> just giant Trump tower in the middle of Greenland.
I never saw it. I mean, I saw that, but you never saw him in person.
I never saw him in person.
I also never saw him show any enjoyment or understanding of music.